
The main goal of Machine Learning on


microcontrollers is to develop the neural


network model trained on the desktop so


that it can work on a microcontroller.


After the hardware-constrained


neural network model is designed to


satisfy the requirement of accuracy,


operations, and memory,


the models can be translated onto the


microcontroller to have a deployable


solution that runs real-time


on the inference step.


It is also important to optimise


the implementation onto the hardware


platform by using optimized code


designed for the target hardware.


For Machine Learning on Arm


Cortex-M family microcontrollers,


this means using the CMSIS-NN library,


which is part of the Common Microcontroller 


Software Interface Standard.


CMSIS is a vendor-independent abstraction


layer for Arm Cortex-M processors.


CMSIS is comprised of many


libraries. For Machine Learning,


the two most important libraries


are CMSIS-DSP and CMSIS-NN.


CMSIS-DSP


is a rich collection of Digital


Signal Processing functions that


Arm has optimized for various


Arm Cortex-M processors.


For example,


the Cortex M-4, Cortex M-7, Cortex M-33,


Cortex M-35, and the Cortex M-55 processors.


Arm has added new functions to


the CMSIS-DSP library for


classical Machine Learning,


including for Support Vector Machines,


naive Gaussian Bayes classifiers,


and distances for clustering.


The use of CMSIS-DSP can drastically


reduce the requirements for the


Machine Learning algorithms.


CMSIS-NN is a collection of optimized


neural network functions for Cortex-M cores,


In particular,


CMSIS-NN includes optimized functions


for convolution activation, pooling, and


fully connected network operations.


It is important to keep in mind that


CMSIS-NN improves the performance


by exploiting single instruction


multiple data instruction


On Arm Cortex-M microcontrollers.


This is very useful to accelerate


Multiply-Accumulate Operations with


16-bit or 8-bit operations which are


common in Convolutional Neural Networks


as you saw in the computer vision


example. Using 8-bit and 16-bit operations


also minimizes memory footprint.


CMSIS-NN is a collection of efficient


neural network kernels developed to


maximize the performance and minimize


the memory footprint of neural networks


o Arm Cortex-M processor cores.


These are targeted at intelligent Edge


devices in the Internet of Things.


A neural network based on CMSIS-NN


kernels achieves a 4.6 times greater


runtime or throughput and a 4.9 times


improvement in energy efficiency.


This is for the inference step,


compared with the same model


implemented only with CMSIS-DSP functions.


In particular, CMSIS-NN optimizes the


following operations. For convolution,


it boosts compute density with


general matrix multiplication,


also known as a GEMM-based implementation,


reduces data movement overhead with


depth first data layout, and interleaves


data movement and compute to minimize


memory footprint. For pooling,


it improves performance by splitting


pooling into X and Y directions,


and improves memory access and


footprint with in-situ updates.


Finally, for the activation functions,


it improves parallelism for rectified


linear units using branch-free


implementation and calculates sigmoid


and hyperbolic tan values more


quickly, using a fast table-lookup


instead of exponent computation.

