
Only a few years ago, the design of computer


vision with Machine Learning looked


remarkably different from today's systems.


For instance, if the task was


to recognize a cat in an image,


the Machine Learning algorithms tried


to see the cat as an amalgamation


of several different "features",


which represented the shapes of the head,


ears, body, four legs,


and tail, and so on.


Early computer vision Machine Learning


techniques relied on extensive


manual effort to build rules-based


classification algorithms to detect and


classify certain groups of these pixel


arrangements, after extracting features.


Today, deep learning,


and in particular Convolutional


Neural Networks,


are making vision algorithms highly


effective in the real world.


The advent of Convolutional


Neural Networks made computer


vision feasible for industrial


applications using this technology.


Convolutional Neural Networks are capable


of extracting the features of images


in the convolutional layers directly.


This means the model can learn directly


from the raw data, as seen in this figure,


where a cat can be recognized


with three convolutional layers


and a fully connected layer.


This system can then classify


images into those that do and


those that don't contain a cat,


a single channel grayscale image of size


244x324 pixels can be represented


as an input matrix of this size.


Suppose a neural network needs to


classify the images from zero faces to 7,


then it will have 8 output classes.


You could build a deep learning model


that includes 3 convolutional layers,


for instance, using 5x5 filters and


the rectified linear activation function.


In this example,


the first convolutional layer is done


using 16 different 5x5 filters.


The first two convolutional layers


are each followed by a 4x4 max


pooling layer and the last convolution


is followed by one of 5x5.


The model then operates a global average


pooling of 16x6 to build the


input of the full connected neural network,


which ends with eight output nodes.


These are the eight classes that identify


the number of faces in the image.


During the training process,


the kernel weights are evaluated


and during the inference step,


the kernel weights of all the


16 filters are fixed.


The first feature map can be represented


as an array of size 16x240x320.


16 is the number of filter and feature maps.


The feature map has size 240x320.


This is slightly smaller than the


original image size because the


convolution does not use padding


and the algorithm pixel by pixel


as the stride length is 1.


After the first convolution,


the model applies a max pooling


of size 4x4.


This takes the maximum value of each 4x4


group of elements of the feature map.


This reduces the feature map to


16 matrices of size 60x80.


The other layers operate in a similar manner.


This diagram shows one specific possible


architecture for the neural network.


There are many alternative possibilities,


and these different models can


have different computational


performance and different accuracy.

