
There are many advantages of performing


machine learning "at the edge".


In particular, lower latency and


reliability, as the information is


processed close to the sensors, without


needing to transmit it to the cloud.


The communication with the cloud


would usually require milliseconds of


latency, compared to the microsecond


that can be achieved with a low


power microcontroller. Improved data


protection, as the data are not transferred


to another computer through the Internet


or by other wireless or wired communication.


No wireless or wired communication is needed —


or if it is needed —


a much lower bandwidth is required, as


the processed information is an order


of magnitude less than the raw data.


For example, several kilobytes would be


needed to send an image of an apple,


but after the image has been


classified as an apple,


the fact that it's an apple could


be communicated to the cloud


in just one byte.


The Machine Learning can be processed


in a low-power microcontroller,


which consumes only milliwatts of power.


Moving Machine Learning from the


cloud, to the edge, and to the extreme


edge, working with microcontrollers,


means it can run inside small, low-energy,


battery-operated devices,


including wearables such as earbuds.


However,


despite the benefits, this requires


us to work with processors that have


vastly lower computation resources.


Rather than several trillions


of operations per second,


a processor such as the Arm Cortex-


M4 may only perform several million


operations.


What's more,


the memory is also significantly


reduced from several terabytes


to a maximum of a few megabytes


in the best case.


It's important to note that in


supervised Machine Learning the


inference step might require millions


of operations that are mainly


multiplications and additions.


So, memory is necessary to store the data,


the parameters of learning, and the


results of the run-time calculations.


Running these operations on a high


performance embedded processor,


such as the Cortex-M4,


minimizes the time for inference


as much as possible by exploiting


the core digital signal processor


extension and the floating-point unit


to run the model in the most efficient way.


In this course, you will learn how


to train Machine Learning models


on a desktop computer and implement


them in an optimized way to run


inferences on a real embedded system.


The main goal of Machine Learning


on microcontrollers is to design a


deployable and optimized solution on


low-power resource-constrained hardware.

