
TinyML is a promising and


cutting-edge field to exploit the


transformative power of Machine


Learning to tiny devices, which have


constraints on performance and power.


There are many novel shrinking


techniques for Machine Learning to


satisfy the resource constraints of a


microcontroller. Model optimization or


size reduction can refer to many things:


You can reduce the number of


weights, to reduce both memory


and computational resources.


You can reduce the number of bits


per weight to reduce the memory


requirement, and enable faster


processing of the same operation.


This can be achieved by single instruction


multiple data, available on


Arm Cortex-M microcontrollers.


You can also reduce the number of layers,


which reduces the number of


operations required and therefore the


computational resource requirements.


Let's take a deeper look into the


main techniques to achieve a reduced


requirement of memory and operations.


Pruning and distillation are two very


important steps for tiny Machine Learning.


Pruning means trimming or cutting


away the excess. In the context of


Machine Learning, it removes the


connections in the neural network,


so the number of weights falls


below a certain threshold,


since these excess connections provide


low or no utility to the output and


may even lead to overfitting. the


resulting sparse neural network needs


to be retrained after this process,


but of course fewer connections


mean smaller requirements of memory


and computations.


So what is knowledge distillation?


Neural networks often have a lot


of meaningful connections, and


others that are redundant.


The information in the final model


(the teacher model) that has been trained is


transferred to a smaller network model


(the student model) with fewer parameters.


This compresses part of the network


knowledge into a smaller network,


allowing you to reduce the size of


the model that is deployed in the


resources-constrained microcontrollers.


It is important to notice the difference


between pruning and distillation.


Both aim to reduce the size of the model,


however,


while knowledge distillation reduces the


model size by changing model structure,


pruning reduces the model size by discarding


unnecessary weights in the model.


Another trick for tiny Machine


Learning is quantization.


There are several advantages to moving


the Machine Learning models that are


trained with the floating-point data on GPU


graphic cards or servers, to fixed points


in an embedded system, or in particular,


on microcontrollers. First of all,


not all microcontrollers and embedded


system processes have a floating-point unit.


Second,


even with a floating point unit, as


on Arm Cortex-M controllers fixed-


point quantization helps to avoid the


costly floating-point computations


and reduce the computational time.


So in general, quantization reduces


the memory footprint for storing


both weights and activations,


which is critical for resource.


Constrained platforms and also can


reduce the computational time.

