
In quantization, the precise float


values from the data are mapped to


quantized values. In particular,


a minimum value is mapped on the minimal


quantized value and a maximum value is


mapped on the maximum quantized value.


The quantized values are usually integers,


which are stored as binary.


Depending on the number of digits


used for each quantized value,


it can be represented in different forms.


The most important are 8-bit integers,


whose values range from minus 128


to positive 127; unsigned 8-bit


integers, ranging from 0 to 255,


16-bit integers, ranging from


around -30,000 to positive


30,000, and unsigned


16 bit integers,


which range from zero to over 65,000.


In the figure,


we use unsigned 8-bit integers.


When we map the data to quantized values,


some values remain the same


while others need to be rounded


to the nearest quantized number.


Values greater than the value


that was mapped to the maximum


also get mapped to the maximum.


Likewise for values lesser than the minimum.


De-quantizing any value simply maps


them back onto the corresponding


specific original values,


which may be slightly different


in the case of rounding.


For this reason,


changing a float from representation


to a quantized version requires


more than simply changing float


to int everywhere in your code,


as the results of your integer


computations can overflow,


especially when storing intermediate


results in accumulators.


See what happens for the quantization


in a microcontroller when using a


neural network to perform inference.


The weights fall in a well-nown range


that can be calculated beforehand,


so quantization will be straightforward


and accurate.


The input data arrives in real-time from


sensors such as a camera or a microphone.


They are also in a confined range.


This range is different from


the range for the weight,


but you can find appropriate minimal


and maximum values when evaluating the


training step with a recorded dataset.


During the inference step,


the neural network needs to perform


many multiplications between the input


data and the weights of the model.


These are performed in the quantized


space using fixed-point arithmetic.


To account for the overflow,


it is important to use an integer


type with a wider range.


For instance,


if the data and weights are 8-bit integers,


you should use 16-bit integers.


As for the input,


each layer's output will also


lie in a confined range.


To maintain accuracy,


it is important to find the range


of the output values from the layer


in the training and then re-quantize


this output according to this range.


Popular frameworks, for example TensorFlow,


PyTorch, and Caffe are designed differently.


There is not a unified method for converting


neural networks for a range of applications


across all of these frameworks to run on


Arm Cortex-M microprocessors to address


the problem of quantizing a network,


you can either train with a quantized


network or quantize an existing network.


The first solution should give better


results since the network is trained with the


truncation noise and the saturation effects.


But it is also more complex than the


second method. With the second strategy,


quantizing the weights and biases


as simple as the values are known,


it is easy to find the fixed-point format


as soon as the word size is chosen.


For CMSIS-NN, the word size


can either be 8 bits or 16 bits.

